12/01/2004 - a brief outline of the OpenGL Conquest client.

NODES

    Unlike the curses conquest client, the OpenGL/X11 client is
    defined in terms of state and a current rendering node.  In the
    curses client, program flow progresses in a linear fashion.  Ie,
    something is displayed, and then the program waits for some input,
    and then proceeds onward.

    X11/OpenGL programming doesn't work this way, since input handling
    and rendering are distinct, asynchronous processes, and therefore
    the current 'mode' of the program must be handled in terms of state.

    For this reason, I developed a 'rendering node' paradigm for the
    OpenGL conquest client.  At any given time, conquestgl is running
    a specific 'node', ie: the login screen.  Control is transferred
    from node to node throughout the life of the program. ie: Auth ->
    Welcome -> ConSrvr -> MainMenu ->.....

    OpenGL rendering in conquest is handled by 'nodes'.  Nodes are
    implemented in C files that represent a 'state' in conquest that
    provides all of the logic for displaying a single screen (menu,
    cockpit (CP), userlist, etc), as well as idling and Input handling.

    A node is defined by a scrNode_t typedef which is defined in
    node.h.  This structure contains pointers to 4 functions and one
    pointer to an animation que initilized with animQueInit().

    The 4 functions that a node defines are all optional, however if
    no functions are defined by a node, and control is ever tranferred
    to it, the client will softlock (spin in an infinite loop), so
    don't do that.

    You can, of course, implement any other (statically defined)
    functions within a node to do whatever you require.

    In addition to these four functions (described below) is an init
    function that is called by other code to initialize the node and
    transfer rendering control to it.
    
    The init function is defined by the programmer to accept whatever
    arguements are appropriate to that node.  

    Node control is handled by the primary rendering function
    renderFrame() in GL.c.  You should never need to change anything
    there. 

    renderFrame() calls renderNode() which is responsible for actually
    executing the current 'Top' node.  Currently there two Top nodes
    possible.  Top, and OTop.  OTop is a special node that renders
    onto the current Top node, seperated by a Quad with a 0.5 alpha
    blend applied.  setONode() is used to setup this node.  You can
    see how this is used in nPlayB to display transparent data over
    the screen while replaying a recording.

    You transfer control from one node to another by calling the new
    node's init function.

    The 5 functions that are used in a Node are:

    init(<up to programmer>) - required

       sets up whatever state is required for a node and uses
       setNode(*node) to set the toplevel node to the current node; 

    display(dspConfig_t *)   - optional

       dspConfig_t is defined in gldisplay.h and contains information
       about the screen (width, height, etc).
       
       This node is responsible for rendering the complete frame for
       the node.

    idle(void)               - optional

       The idle method is called immediately after the node's
       display method.  This node can be used for tracking special
       state, looking for available packets from the client and
       processing them, etc.  It should never try to display
       anything. 

    input(int ch)            - optional

       'ch' is the key that was pressed.

       this method handles any keyboard events that occur during node
       execution. 


    minput(mouseData_t *mdata)            - optional

       'mdata' contains the relevant information for dealing with
       mouse events.  mouseData_t is defined in cqmouse.h.

       this method handles any mouse events that occur during node
       execution.


    If you add a node, please use my current naming convention for the
    node code files and the function names, for example in nPlay.c:

            nPlayInit(void) (not using any args here)
            nPlayDisplay(dspConfig_t *)
            nPlayIdle(void)
            nPlayInput(int ch)

    Here's a list of the current nodes and roughly what they do (if
    the name doesn't make it clear):


    nAuth.c      - initial authentication and login screen
    nCP.c        - cockpit (CP) node (main playing screen)
    nCPHelp.c    - displays CP help screen
    nConsvr.c    - connects to server, displays any relevant
                   status/errors     
    nDead.c      - where you go when you die (dead screen)
    nMenu.c      - main menu
    nMeta.c      - meta server screen
    nOptions.c   - all options screens/state
    nPlanetl.c   - planet list
    nPlay.c      - aquires a ship, preps you for entering CP
    nPlayB.c     - playback screen (playing back recordings) - like CP
                   but quite a bit simpler.  This would be more like
                   what a conqoper would use for (w)atching a ship.
    nPlayBHelp.c - playback help
    nPlayBMenu.c - playback menu
    nHistl.c     - history list
    nShipl.c
    nPlanetl.c 
    nTeaml.c
    nUserl.c
    nWelcome.c   - "W E L C O M E", etc...


    You should look at the nodes to get an idea of how they work.

GL

    Most OpenGL rendering is performed by functions in GL.c (drawing
    planets, ships, etc).  You should not need to mess with anything
    there. 

    One of the big diffs between OpenGL vs. curses rendering is that
    the complete display is rendered on every frame.  It's an
    important distinction.  Account for this in your display()
    method.  Though for doing things like rendering the viewer use a
    predefined function renderViewer() (render.c).

    Color handling has been revamped (color.c, color.h) to abstract
    the implemetation.  curses attrib() calls now use a UI specific
    UiPutColor() function.

    Keybord handling is also quite different and standardized
    (cqkeys.h). Prompting may seem strange at first.  look at
    prm.[hc]. It's probably easier to just copy existing uses in the
    input() methods used in the various nodes.
    

Other info:

    With very few exceptions, a node will require it's own state so
    that is knows what it is currently doing (prompting for a ship,
    displaying the options list, etc).  In my nodes, I use 'S_<state>'
    defines to represent the various states a node can be in, and a
    static variable called 'state' that indicates the state of the
    current node.

    Some functions have been redefined to have an OpenGL equivalent.
    For example, I wrote a version of cprintf() (glcprintf.c) that can
    be used in your display() method to draw texture mapped text to a
    3D window. It accepts the same arguments and will work the same
    way.  It logically divides the rendering area into an 80x25 cell
    character display.

    One thing to be aware of are OpenGL Projection Matrices.  I use 2
    of them - one for the viewer, and one for everything else (hud -
    which uses an X11-like orthographic projection).  cprintf will
    only work with hud-type projection matrices.  You should hopefully
    not have to care - but keep this in mind if you are trying to
    render text in the viewer.  The viewer uses true perspective
    correction and Z.

    The most complex node in the client is the cockpit node, nCP.c.
    You will notice there is alot of duplication of some of the
    original conquest functions in this file.  Someday it would be
    nice to 're-unify' these with their older curses only counterparts
    and eliminate some duplicate code.  Big job, so right now I'm
    only doing it if I find myself needing to correct the same problem
    in 2 places :)
            
    Using the PlayB nodes may be good place to start looking as the
    conqoper node(s) should operate in pretty much the identical way
    (diff commands, etc) but functionally equivalent.  In addition,
    you will not need to worry about packet handling as conqoper deals
    with the CB directly.  You will need to be careful about locking
    though (PVLOCK()).  You do not want to inadvertantly aquire a lock
    in one node, then transfer to a another node before unlocking it,
    or you will deadlock the client.  The current clients do not use an
    external CB so no locking is needed.

    The more I think about it, the more it does not seem like this
    should be too hard, especially if you are already using cprintf to
    draw menus and such in the curses version.  Mainly managing input
    and display handling via state are the main changes, most of the
    hard work (view, hud, etc) is already done and can be re-used with
    minimal tweaks (the hud will need tweaking to support displaying
    from the doomsday perspective etc).

    Anyway, here's a brief overview.  Hope you enjoyed it.



    


    