TODO

	Suggestions for improvments are welcome, though not guaranteed
to be implemented.  Particularly any suggestion that changes the
balance of the game (such as enhanced capability for a team/ship), or
makes the game too easy (like auto-targeting phasers) will not be
implemented.  Cosmetic changes that seem too personalized or specific
will also not be implemented (for example, making the ships look
different without good reason).  If you have to have an option I won't
put in, you have the source - code away...

	These are items being considered for implementation and/or
fixing in a future release of Conquest.

- the ability to customize colors in your ~/.conquestrc file.

- enhance conqoper watch to allow watching of planets.  Perhaps
players might be allowed to watch their own planets as well...
Perhaps not...

- The ability to define initial planetary attributes (like orbital
velocity, orbit angle, orbit radius, etc) in the global conquestrc
file.  This would make it easier for CG's to run 'modified' games
without having to manually make changes via conqoper after every init.
(Currently you can get around this restriction by: 1) Init the
universe via conqoper, 2) use conqoper to set things up the way you
want them to be.  3) exit conqoper and make a backup copy of the
conquest_common.img file (the commonblock).  4) Then whenever you you
want to re-init everything to your settings, copy the backup
commonblock you made onto the current commonblock. (Make sure no one
is playing of course, and that you make sure the permisions are 660
with the group set to conquest...))

- the ability for users to generate robot strategy tables using
conqstrat, based on their own rule files, and allow those users to
turn over control of their ship to the user's robot strategy with
(a)uto-pilot.  Currently, if users are allowed to use (a)uto-pilot
(via conqoper -> (e)dit user), their ship will be put under the
control of the standard robot strategy table.  Might be nice to be
able to use your own, ala the ancient crobots game...

- code that would support public conquest servers via a generic
'conquest' user. 

- The ability for a user to generate a robot for target practice at
will (providing there are no other human players playing).  This can
be done now by attacking a team planet that currently has no players
(human or robot) to defend it.  Maybe it should stay that
way... Comments?

- Modifications that might allow an unprivileged user to setup and run
a Conquest game (such as on a University computer, where privileged
access isn't possible).


Jon Trulson <jon@radscan.com> 12/24/97
